# Queue
BU MET CS341 Homework 4

CS341 Homework program assignment 4

This assignment is to do a simulation of a Queue at a checkout counter in a supermarket or in a big-box store.  What is called a Queue is what we in the US understand as a line.  This is also known as a single-server Queue.  When you want to check out your purchases, you get in line and wait your turn.  The algorithm which I suggest to handle the implementation of the Queue is a doubly-linked list, which is similar to the doubly linked list which we studied in class.  A singly-linked list with an associated reference variable to track the current most senior member of the Queue has also been suggested in the Main and Savitch textbook.  In either approach, each person entering the Queue should be assigned a person number.

There are two main operations regarding a Queue.  The first is to Enter the Queue, i.e. to be added to the end of the list of people waiting to be served.  The second is to be Served when the person reaches the most senior position in the Queue.  After being Served, the person is removed/deleted from the Queue (and he/she goes on his/her way).  A third operation or pair of operations for diagnostic purposes is suggested -- which is one or two operations to list the membership of the Queue in the forward direction, and if a doubly-linked list is used, also to list in the reverse direction.

There are three control inputs which I want you to make available in your simulator program, as follows.
First is the length of time in minutes for which the simulation is to be run.  This is a positive integer which will be used to specify the total number of minutes for which your simulation should be run. I expect to be able to run the simulation for anywhere between 10 minutes and 60 minutes.  When I say that I want the simulation to run for 10 minutes, I don’t mean that it should run for ten minutes of elapsed wall-clock time using wait, sleep or pause to consume the time.  What I mean is that it is to proceed through all the calculations to present its results without stopping for waits, sleeps or pauses.

Second is the maximum interval in minutes between individual people entering the Queue.  For instance, if 5 minutes is the maximum, a person can enter the Queue at 1,2,3,4 or 5 minutes following the admission of their immediate predecessor. You may assume that the first person enters the Queue during minute number 1 when the Queue is first opened.   You can use an application of the function rand() to determine the interval after each person has entered the queue before the next person enters.  You can also use srand() once in the program execution to prime the random number generator, but please do not call srand() more than once in the program run.  If you use srand(), you need to provide for the user to enter an integer seed number.
Third is the maximum interval of time in minutes to serve an individual person in the Queue when the person reaches the front of the Queue.  For instance, if the maximum time to serve any customer is 3 minutes, then a particular customer may be served in 1, 2 or 3 minutes.  You can also use an application of the rand() function to determine this interval of time for service, not including preceding wait time.

The outputs I want to see are the current minute number, the customer number starting with 1, the entry minute for each customer and the remaining minutes to exit for each customer.  Please see the table below.  Your program only admits one customer at a time into the queue.  Your program determines what minute the customer enters and it assigns that customer a customer number, an entry minute and the number of minutes it takes to serve that customer and the amount of time which that customer has to wait before being served.  Then, the customer waits in the queue until the arrival of his turn to be served.  While the customer is being served your program deducts 1 from his service minutes until the count of service minutes reaches 0.  Then, he/she is dismissed from the queue.  Your program starts the next person if there is one, or your program reports a wait until a new person is entered into the queue.  

I want an output list of the individual minutes during which the Queue is open to customers.  For each minute, I want one line of output for each person in the Queue, showing person number, current status (entering, waiting, being served) and total number of minutes currently in the Queue.  Also, please include a header line of titles.  For each minute, please show the number of the people in the Queue or report the word None.  For each person in the queue, please show their person number and time of entry.  Also, for each person currently in the Queue, please show how many minutes the person has been in the Queue. I have provided an example output listing below.  
There are two more columns to the output report, which are Service Time Remaining and Wait Time Remaining.  If the person is currently being served, there will be 0 Wait Time and the Service Time will diminish from the initially assigned Service Time minute-by-minute until it reaches 0 and the person departs from the Queue.  If the person is currently waiting, the initial Wait Time will be determined by the Service Time Remaining for the current Person being Served plus the Wait Times for all previous people waiting.  When the person’s Wait Time reaches 0, the person’s Service Time will diminish minute by minute until the person is discharged from the Queue.  In all cases the sum of the Service Time Remaining and the Wait Time Remaining for each person should add up to the Minutes remaining until his Service is  completed.  I have included the two columns  -- Service Time remaining and Wait Time remaining  in the sample output report in order to facilitate your visual checking of your program’s outputs. 

Please be aware of the following requirement.  Since this is a simulation program, I do not want you to use a Wait function to delay until each wall-clock minute is complete.  The program should move through each calculation without delay and proceed to the next.  So, the entire run for a 60-minute simulation should take less than one minute.
